README.md, before:

# Deus Ex Randomizer

This is a mod for the original Deus Ex that takes everything and shuffles it all around to make it like a new game every time but with the same great story.

### Installation Instructions

Download the `DeusEx.u` file from the releases page here https://github.com/Die4Ever/deus-ex-randomizer/releases

Then copy the `DeusEx.u` file into your `Deus Ex\System\` folder, which is probably `C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\Deus Ex\System` (make a backup of the original `DeusEx.u`). If the game is not running well, see the recommended tweaks below.

### v1.5 Trailer

[![v1.5 Trailer](https://img.youtube.com/vi/A0Li3XuBjGg/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0Li3XuBjGg)

### Currently in v1.6.2, DXRando randomizes
* locations of goals, NPCs, and some starting locations
* medbots and repair bots (with hint datacubes near them)
* adding and moving turrets, cameras, security computers, and datacubes for them
* starting equipment, bioelectric energy, and credits
* adding and changing enemies/characters, giving them random names and making some of them dance
* changing the locations of items/boxes/NanoKeys/datacubes around the map
* passwords and passcodes (they get updated in your Goals/Notes screen)
* exp costs for skills
    * option for rerolling every mission
    * option for disabling the Downgrade button on the new game screen, to prevent looking ahead
* what augmentations are in each canister
* the strength and lockpick strength for doors
* the hack strength for keypads
* the strength of augmentations and skills
* the damage and firing speed of weapons
* JC's and Paul's clothes
* randomly adds "The Merchant"

There are also settings for
* Crowd Control! Let your viewers troll you or help you! NOW PLAYABLE! https://forum.warp.world/t/deus-ex-randomizer-pc/20496
    * If you want to try some of the Crowd Control features without actually streaming, you can try the "OfflineCrowdControl.py" script to randomly send Crowd Control messages to your local game!  Requires Python 3.8 or above
* New Game+ - after beating the game play it again keeping your items, skills, and augs, but with increased difficulty and a new seed
    * takes away 1 random augmentation, and 1 of your weapons
    * takes away half your skill points and 5 random skill levels, so the player has to choose which ones to level up first
* new game modes!
    * Entrance Randomization - changes what level each teleporter takes you to, but keeps it within the same mission.
    * Horde Mode - fight for your life to see how long you can survive in the Paris Cathedral.
* challenge mode loadouts!
    * Stick With the Prod Pure means the only weapon you get is the stun prod (hint: throw a crate straight up into the air to break it)
        * Stick With the Prod Plus also allows EMP grenades, gas grenades, scramble grenades, pepper gun, and tranq darts
    * Ninja JC - the only weapons allowed are throwing knives, swords, pepper spray, and grenades. You also get a Ninja Augmentation which gives you speed and stealth at the same time
    * Don't Give Me the GEP Gun - bans the GEP gun
    * Freeman Mode - only weapon allowed is the crowbar
    * Grenades Only
* Co-op when combined with the HX mod (Alpha)
    * download HX-0.9.89.4.zip from https://builds.hx.hanfling.de/testing/
    * copy HXRandomizer.u and HXRandomizer.int into the System directory of the game
    * Co-op Teaser
      * [![Co-op Teaser](https://img.youtube.com/vi/YwgKlt5N70A/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YwgKlt5N70A)
* making all or some of the doors that normally require a key also lockpickable and/or destructible
* making all or some keypads hackable.
* reducing the drop rate for ammo, multitools, lockpicks, medkits, and bioelectric cells
* autosave
* making enemies respawn
* starting the game with the running speed augmentation
* optional hardcore Autosave-Only mode, no save-scumming allowed!
* autofill passwords options

#### When you click New Game, you will see this settings screen:
![options](https://i.imgur.com/WaExgts.png)

#### If you click Next then it will use default settings based on your difficulty choice. But if you click Advanced then you will see these settings:
![advanced options](https://i.imgur.com/bQcLOY7.png)

For the randomized passwords, you can copy-paste from the Goals/Notes screen, or use the new autofill passwords option.

I've also made some balance tweaks. Make sure to read the descriptions for skills and augmentations. Hacking computers now uses bioelectric energy. The large metal crates are now destructible, they have 2000 hp. Spy Drone aug has improved speed and the emp blast now also does explosive damage. The PS20 has been upgraded to the PS40 and does significantly more damage. Paul is now mortal during the raid in mission 4, so you need to help him fight! Hazmat suit now also helps against fire, electricity, and explosions. Enviro skill now gives a little passive damage resistance for the same damage types as Hazmat suits. Demolition skill allows you to carry more grenades at once. Items like ballistic armor and rebreathers now free up the inventory space immediately when you equip them. Alcohol now gives you some energy and also fixes dead legs. [See full list of balance changes here in the wiki.](https://github.com/Die4Ever/deus-ex-randomizer/wiki/Balance-Changes)

### Recommended tweaks for running Deus Ex on modern computers

Recommended to use it with [Kentie's Deus Exe Launcher](http://www.kentie.net/article/dxguide/), or [Han's Launcher](https://coding.hanfling.de/launch/#binaries). Play with OpenGL renderer because the Direct3D renderers have trouble on newer Nvidia drivers unless you use the [Deus Ex Speedup Fix mod. The Deus Ex Speedup Fix mod, download at the bottom,](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2048525175) allows you to disable the fps cap (the fps cap in the game can cause stutters, but capping frame rate in nvidia control panel works perfectly) If you use that mod, then edit your `Documents\Deus Ex\System\DeusEx.ini` file and search for `FPSLimit=` and set it to 0 to manually remove the fps cap because I've noticed that Kentie's Launcher doesn't always do it correctly, and also disable vsync with your graphics driver. If you use the speedup fix then you'll probably want to use the [Direct3D 10](https://kentie.net/article/d3d10drv/) or [Direct3D 11](https://kentie.net/article/d3d11drv/index.htm) renderer. I use my graphics driver to enforce a 120fps limit with Direct3D 10.

Join the [discord channel for discussion](https://discord.gg/daQVyAp2ds) or message me directly Die4Ever#6351

If you want to play with the `DXRando.ini` config file (in your `Documents\Deus Ex\System\` folder), then you can look at the [wiki for reference](https://github.com/Die4Ever/deus-ex-randomizer/wiki/DXRando.ini-config)

Commit message:

initial work for GMDX support

README.md, after:

# Deus Ex Randomizer

This is a mod for the original Deus Ex that takes everything and shuffles it all around to make it like a new game every time but with the same great story.

### Installation Instructions

Download the `DeusEx.u` file from the releases page here https://github.com/Die4Ever/deus-ex-randomizer/releases

Then copy the `DeusEx.u` file into your `Deus Ex\System\` folder, which is probably `C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\Deus Ex\System` (make a backup of the original `DeusEx.u`). If the game is not running well, see the recommended tweaks below.

### Installation Instructions for GMDX

Install GMDX from https://www.moddb.com/mods/gmdx/downloads/gmdxv90-release

Download GMDXRandomizer.u and copy it into the game's System folder, which is probably `C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\Deus Ex\System`

Edit the GMDX.ini file which is probably in `%UserProfile%\Documents\Deus Ex\System`

In the `[Engine.Engine]` section, change `DefaultGame` from `DefaultGame=DeusEx.DeusExGameInfo` to `DefaultGame=GMDXRandomizer.GMDXRandoGameInfo`

GMDXRandomizer is in early alpha testing and does not support all of the features that the single player randomizer has.

### Installation Instructions for HX (Co-op)

Make sure to use the DeusEx.u file from the original game for co-op.

First download and install HX-0.9.89.4.zip from https://builds.hx.hanfling.de/testing/

Then copy HXRandomizer.u and HXRandomizer.int into the System directory of the game.

HXRandomizer is in early alpha testing and does not support all of the features that the single player randomizer has.

### v1.5 Trailer

[![v1.5 Trailer](https://img.youtube.com/vi/A0Li3XuBjGg/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0Li3XuBjGg)

### Currently in v1.6.2, DXRando randomizes
* locations of goals, NPCs, and some starting locations
* medbots and repair bots (with hint datacubes near them)
* adding and moving turrets, cameras, security computers, and datacubes for them
* starting equipment, bioelectric energy, and credits
* adding and changing enemies/characters, giving them random names and making some of them dance
* changing the locations of items/boxes/NanoKeys/datacubes around the map
* passwords and passcodes (they get updated in your Goals/Notes screen)
* exp costs for skills
    * option for rerolling every mission
    * option for disabling the Downgrade button on the new game screen, to prevent looking ahead
* what augmentations are in each canister
* the strength and lockpick strength for doors
* the hack strength for keypads
* the strength of augmentations and skills
* the damage and firing speed of weapons
* JC's and Paul's clothes
* randomly adds "The Merchant"

There are also settings for
* Crowd Control! Let your viewers troll you or help you! NOW PLAYABLE! https://forum.warp.world/t/deus-ex-randomizer-pc/20496
    * If you want to try some of the Crowd Control features without actually streaming, you can try the "OfflineCrowdControl.py" script to randomly send Crowd Control messages to your local game!  Requires Python 3.8 or above
* New Game+ - after beating the game play it again keeping your items, skills, and augs, but with increased difficulty and a new seed
    * takes away 1 random augmentation, and 1 of your weapons
    * takes away half your skill points and 5 random skill levels, so the player has to choose which ones to level up first
* new game modes!
    * Entrance Randomization - changes what level each teleporter takes you to, but keeps it within the same mission.
    * Horde Mode - fight for your life to see how long you can survive in the Paris Cathedral.
* challenge mode loadouts!
    * Stick With the Prod Pure means the only weapon you get is the stun prod (hint: throw a crate straight up into the air to break it)
        * Stick With the Prod Plus also allows EMP grenades, gas grenades, scramble grenades, pepper gun, and tranq darts
    * Ninja JC - the only weapons allowed are throwing knives, swords, pepper spray, and grenades. You also get a Ninja Augmentation which gives you speed and stealth at the same time
    * Don't Give Me the GEP Gun - bans the GEP gun
    * Freeman Mode - only weapon allowed is the crowbar
    * Grenades Only
* Co-op when combined with the HX mod (Alpha)
    * download HX-0.9.89.4.zip from https://builds.hx.hanfling.de/testing/
    * copy HXRandomizer.u and HXRandomizer.int into the System directory of the game
    * Co-op Teaser
      * [![Co-op Teaser](https://img.youtube.com/vi/YwgKlt5N70A/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YwgKlt5N70A)
* making all or some of the doors that normally require a key also lockpickable and/or destructible
* making all or some keypads hackable.
* reducing the drop rate for ammo, multitools, lockpicks, medkits, and bioelectric cells
* autosave
* making enemies respawn
* starting the game with the running speed augmentation
* optional hardcore Autosave-Only mode, no save-scumming allowed!
* autofill passwords options

#### When you click New Game, you will see this settings screen:
![options](https://i.imgur.com/WaExgts.png)

#### If you click Next then it will use default settings based on your difficulty choice. But if you click Advanced then you will see these settings:
![advanced options](https://i.imgur.com/bQcLOY7.png)

For the randomized passwords, you can copy-paste from the Goals/Notes screen, or use the new autofill passwords option.

I've also made some balance tweaks. Make sure to read the descriptions for skills and augmentations. Hacking computers now uses bioelectric energy. The large metal crates are now destructible, they have 2000 hp. Spy Drone aug has improved speed and the emp blast now also does explosive damage. The PS20 has been upgraded to the PS40 and does significantly more damage. Paul is now mortal during the raid in mission 4, so you need to help him fight! Hazmat suit now also helps against fire, electricity, and explosions. Enviro skill now gives a little passive damage resistance for the same damage types as Hazmat suits. Demolition skill allows you to carry more grenades at once. Items like ballistic armor and rebreathers now free up the inventory space immediately when you equip them. Alcohol now gives you some energy and also fixes dead legs. [See full list of balance changes here in the wiki.](https://github.com/Die4Ever/deus-ex-randomizer/wiki/Balance-Changes)

### Recommended tweaks for running Deus Ex on modern computers

Recommended to use it with [Kentie's Deus Exe Launcher](http://www.kentie.net/article/dxguide/), or [Han's Launcher](https://coding.hanfling.de/launch/#binaries). Play with OpenGL renderer because the Direct3D renderers have trouble on newer Nvidia drivers unless you use the [Deus Ex Speedup Fix mod. The Deus Ex Speedup Fix mod, download at the bottom,](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2048525175) allows you to disable the fps cap (the fps cap in the game can cause stutters, but capping frame rate in nvidia control panel works perfectly) If you use that mod, then edit your `Documents\Deus Ex\System\DeusEx.ini` file and search for `FPSLimit=` and set it to 0 to manually remove the fps cap because I've noticed that Kentie's Launcher doesn't always do it correctly, and also disable vsync with your graphics driver. If you use the speedup fix then you'll probably want to use the [Direct3D 10](https://kentie.net/article/d3d10drv/) or [Direct3D 11](https://kentie.net/article/d3d11drv/index.htm) renderer. I use my graphics driver to enforce a 120fps limit with Direct3D 10.

Join the [discord channel for discussion](https://discord.gg/daQVyAp2ds) or message me directly Die4Ever#6351

If you want to play with the `DXRando.ini` config file (in your `Documents\Deus Ex\System\` folder), then you can look at the [wiki for reference](https://github.com/Die4Ever/deus-ex-randomizer/wiki/DXRando.ini-config)
